Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net









                            CHILD'S OWN BOOK
                          _of Great Musicians_
                                 GRIEG

                             [Illustration]

                                  _By_
                             THOMAS TAPPER

                          THEODORE PRESSER CO.
                          1712 CHESTNUT STREET
                             ｷPHILADELPHIAｷ




                             [Illustration]

                         Directions for Binding


Enclosed in this envelope is the cord and the needle with which to bind
this book. Start in from the outside as shown on the diagram here. Pass
the needle and thread through the center of the book, leaving an end
extend outside, then through to the outside, about 2 inches from the
center; then from the outside to inside 2 inches from the center at the
other end of the book, bringing the thread finally again through the
center, and tie the two ends in a knot, one each side of the cord on the
outside.

                 THEO. PRESSER CO., Pub's., Phila., Pa.




                          HOW TO USE THIS BOOK


This book is one of a series known as the CHILD'S OWN BOOK OF GREAT
MUSICIANS, written by Thomas Tapper, author of "Pictures from the Lives
of the Great Composers for Children," "Music Talks with Children,"
"First Studies in Music Biography," and others.

The sheet of illustrations included herewith is to be cut apart by the
child, and each illustration is to be inserted in its proper place
throughout the book, pasted in the space containing the same number as
will be found under each picture on the sheet. It is not necessary to
cover the entire back of a picture with paste. Put it only on the
corners and place neatly within the lines you will find printed around
each space. Use photographic paste, if possible.

After this play-work is completed there will be found at the back of the
book blank pages upon which the child is to write his own story of the
great musician, based upon the facts and questions found on the previous
pages.

The book is then to be sewed by the child through the center with the
cord found in the enclosed envelope. The book thus becomes the child's
own book.

This series will be found not only to furnish a pleasing and interesting
task for the children, but will teach them the main facts with regard to
the life of each of the great musicians--an educational feature worth
while.

                   *       *       *       *       *

This series of the Child's Own Book of Great Musicians includes at
present a book on each of the following:

    Bach                    Grieg                   Mozart
    Beethoven               Handel                  Nevin
    Brahms                  Haydn                   Schubert
    Chopin                  Liszt                   Schumann
    Dvor疚                  MacDowell               Tschaikowsky
    Foster                  Mendelssohn             Verdi
                                                    Wagner




                         [Illustration: No. 1]

                         [Illustration: No. 7]

                         [Illustration: No. 18]

                         [Illustration: No. 22]

                         [Illustration: No. 11]

                         [Illustration: No. 5]

                         [Illustration: No. 17]

                         [Illustration: No. 21]

                         [Illustration: No. 3]

                         [Illustration: No. 13]

                         [Illustration: No. 14]

                         [Illustration: No. 15]

                         [Illustration: No. 6]

                         [Illustration: No. 19]

                         [Illustration: No. 20]

                         [Illustration: No. 12]

                         [Illustration: No. 8]

                         [Illustration: No. 9]

                         [Illustration: No. 4]

                         [Illustration: No. 16]

                         [Illustration: No. 2]

                         [Illustration: No. 10]




                              EDVARD GRIEG

                        The Story of the Boy Who
                         Made Music in the Land
                          of the Midnight Sun


                         This Book was made by


                   ..................................


                              Philadelphia
                          Theodore Presser Co.
                           1712 Chestnut Str.


                  COPYRIGHT 1921, BY THEO. PRESSER CO.
                       British Copyright Secured
                          Printed in U. S. A.




          [Illustration: No. 1
          Cut the picture of Grieg from the picture sheet.
          Paste in here.
          Write the composer's name below and the dates also.]


                                  NAME


                   ..................................


                                  BORN


                   ..................................


                                  DIED


                   ..................................




                  The Story of the Boy Who Made Music
                    in the Land of the Midnight Sun


This is the picture of a boy who was born in the north of the world. He
loved his mother country and the music which the people sang.

But he had music, all his own, that sang and sang in his heart. It was
happy music and sad; solemn and joyous. You will hear it some day and
love it all.

Even when this little boy was in the primary school the music knocked at
his heart's door as if it would say:

"Let me out into the world so that people may hear me."

                  [Illustration: No. 2 GRIEG AS A BOY]

When he was twelve years old he started out one morning as usual, but
instead of taking his school books he took with him his music writing
book which contained what he termed "Variation on a German Melody Op.
1."

       [Illustration: No. 3 FROM THE NORWEGIAN BRIDAL PROCESSION]

Can you not imagine how proud he must have been of his Op. 1?

                [Illustration: No. 4 GRIEG'S SIGNATURE]

His schoolmates were very proud to see the music of their companion
Edvard. But alas! While they were looking at it and talking about it,
whom do you think came creeping up behind them?

Why, the schoolmaster, to be sure.

He gave little Edvard a rough shaking up and told him how severely he
would be punished if ever again he brought such nonsense to school.

Poor old schoolmaster! He did not know what Edvard Grieg would one day
mean to the land and people of Norway. For Edvard loved not only the
music that kept singing in him, but he loved Norway and all its people.
Do you think any one could help loving such mountains as these?

             [Illustration: No. 5 NORWEGIAN MOUNTAIN SCENE]

But all the grown up folks of Edvard's world did not call his music
rubbish. His mother loved music and played beautifully. It was from her
that Edvard had his first lessons, just as Mendelssohn was first taught
by his mother.

Then one day something wonderful happened. A great violinist, Ole Bull
by name, visited the Grieg family in the country. He was so kind to the
little composer that the boy just loved him.

                     [Illustration: No. 6 OLE BULL]

Ole Bull had traveled the world over playing the violin. He looked over
Edvard's compositions and made the boy play them to him. You can see him
nodding his head in pleasure as he listens. His fine eyes are lighted
up. He tells the boy composer that his music is quite good, but that
there is a lot for him to learn yet. So he must study earnestly and make
many sacrifices.

Then Ole Bull sits down and talks with Father and Mother Grieg. It is a
serious talk, as one can see. Finally, when the talk is finished, Ole
Bull takes the wondering boy by the hand and says to him:

"You are going to Leipzig to study and become a fine musician."

So Edvard Grieg left his home city, Bergen, its mountains, its fjords,
its people, his father and mother, and traveled south through Norway,
across the water and into Germany. No doubt he was a lonesome boy. Life
had become serious all at once and there was much to be done.

                   [Illustration: No. 7 BERGEN FJORD]

It was all strange and new. Instead of hills and the waters of the
fjords, there were tall, dark houses, gloomy streets, and such a lot of
hurrying people.


                    [Illustration: No. 8 SCENE IN LEIPZIG]

But he soon grew used to it all and was busy as could be with lessons in
piano and harmony. Just as in the earlier days in school, so in Leipzig,
Edvard wrote music as it sounded in his heart. In the harmony lessons he
could not make himself write plain chords to the bass which was given
him as an exercise. He wrote the light, airy, lovely, fanciful tunes and
rhythms that were singing within him. And just like the schoolmaster at
home, the harmony teacher shouted at him, saying:

"No, that is all wrong!"

His harmony teacher was E. F. Richter.

                     [Illustration: No. 9 E. F. RICHTER]

But you remember that Ole Bull understood the boy's music. While here in
Leipzig there were many who understood it too.

Bit by bit Edvard made friends who loved to listen to his pieces. One of
them was Niels Gade, a fine musician in Denmark, who was a friend of
Schumann's, who one time, wrote a Northern Song on the letters on Gade's
name. It begins like this:

               [Illustration: No. 10 GADE'S MUSICAL NAME]

And Edvard too once wrote a fugue on the letters G-A-D-E.

So inspiring was his music study that Edvard worked very hard. He
composed a great deal of music which slowly made friends for him. Robert
Schumann was one who spoke kindly of the young Norwegian and his music.
And so he grew and improved. Because he was true to his talent, he made
many friends not only in Leipzig but throughout Europe, as we shall see.

                   [Illustration: No. 11 R. SCHUMANN]

You will learn some day the names of many of the people who became
friends of Grieg. There were Rikard Nordraak, and later on Franz Liszt.
Grieg became one of the group of great Norwegian artists in which
Henrik Ibsen and Bjornstjerne Bjornson were prominent. Indeed, Grieg
wrote the music to Ibsen's _Peer Gynt_. One of the great pleasures of
Grieg's life was Bjornson's _Patriotic Poem_ to his own music.

                    [Illustration: No. 12 NORDRAAK]

                      [Illustration: No. 13 LISZT]

                      [Illustration: No. 14 IBSEN]

                    [Illustration: No. 15 BJORNSON]

One day Grieg showed Gade a composition called _In Autumn_ which Gade
did not like. "It is too Norwegian," he said. This pleased Grieg,
although Gade told him to go home and write something better. He was
nearly as rough as Grieg's schoolmaster.

But one day later a prize was offered in Sweden for an orchestral
composition. Grieg's _In Autumn_ won the prize. And Gade was one of the
judges. We wonder if he forgot about it!

                      [Illustration: No. 16 GADE]

Grieg married his cousin Mina Hagerup, to whom he dedicated his famous
song: _I Love Thee_. But the mother of his bride did not think highly of
him.

"He is a nobody," she said, "who writes music that no one cares to
listen to."

               [Illustration: No. 17 GRIEG AND HIS WIFE]

But people were beginning to listen. After a concert in Christiania,
entirely of Norwegian music, the Government gave Grieg a small pension
and he went to Rome.

Here he had a fine meeting with Liszt who asked Grieg to play. Then
Liszt took Grieg's manuscript and played it at sight, to his great
delight.

When Grieg bade good-bye to Liszt the famous pianist said to him:

"Keep on, you have talent and ability. Do not let any one discourage or
frighten you."

So sensitive was Grieg about music writing that he never allowed any one
to watch him. So he had a little house built in the mountains where he
could work at his leisure. This he called his "tune house." There was
only one room and it was for all the world like a little play house
that children have. In it was his piano and often when he was playing,
the Norwegian peasants used to group themselves outside the door,
sometimes joining in the singing, and then again dancing to their
delightful folktunes and dances.

                   [Illustration: No. 18 TUNE HOUSE]

Here are some pictures of Grieg as he looked in later years.

              [Illustration: No. 19 GRIEG IN LATER YEARS]

              [Illustration: No. 20 GRIEG IN LATER YEARS]

As a boy in Leipzig he worked too hard and sickness made it necessary
for him to return home. From this sickness he never fully recovered. All
his life he was frail and unable to endure severe tasks.

In appearance Grieg was short and rather bent in figure. His hands were
thin, but fine and strong for the piano, although one of them had been
crushed in an accident. His eyes were deep blue. They looked straight at
you and were full of life and kindness.

Grieg was merry of nature; a lovely companion, full of fun and company.
Sometimes, however, he was sad and melancholy like his own music.

     [Illustration: No. 21 GRIEG  PERCY GRAINGER  MRS. GRIEG  RONTGEN]

Some day you will learn the names of many of his compositions. And among
them you will love such pieces as _The Birds_, _In Spring Time_,
_Arietta_, the _Peer Gynt Music_, the _Piano Sonata_, the _Piano and
Violin Sonata_, and lots of lively Norwegian dances and tunes. Indeed,
he has composed many compositions which you will number among your
favorite pieces.

Three great names stand out more than all others in the musical history
of Scandinavia. You have learned two, Edvard Grieg and Ole Bull. The
other is Jenny Lind, known as "the Swedish nightingale," who was loved
not only for her wonderful voice but for her kindness and noble nature.
She was born at Stockholm in 1820 and died in England in 1887. In Sweden
to this day Jennie Lind is a great national personage. The people look
upon her as we would on Washington, Irving, Lincoln or Longfellow. She
was very beautiful.

Here is her picture.

                   [Illustration: No. 22 JENNIE LIND]

                   *       *       *       *       *

                     SOME FACTS ABOUT EDVARD GRIEG

When you have read this page and the next make a story about Grieg's
life. Write it in your own words. When you are quite sure you cannot
improve it, copy it on pages 15 and 16.

1. Grieg was born June 15, 1843, near Bergen, Norway.

2. His father's ancestors were Scotch folk who went to Norway after the
Battle of Culloden, in 1745.

3. It was Grieg's mother who gave him his first lessons.

4. One of his best friends--and one who did much for him--was Ole Bull,
the great violinist.

5. Grieg studied at the Leipzig Conservatory.

6. His teachers were Moscheles, Hauptmann (who liked his music),
Richter, and Papperitz.

7. Sir Arthur Sullivan, who composed the opera, _Pinafore_, was one of
Grieg's fellow students at Leipzig. Dudley Buck, the American composer,
was there at the same time.

8. Among Grieg's friends were Gade, Nordraak, Ibsen, Bjornson and
Svendsen.

9. He married his cousin, Mina Hagerup, who was a fine singer.

10. Grieg composed for the piano, voice, violin, and for the orchestra.

11. Grieg wrote music to Ibsen's _Peer Gynt_, at the poet's request.

12. The Norwegian Government granted Grieg a pension, so that he could
be free to devote himself to composition.

13. He died September 3, 1907.

                   *       *       *       *       *

                        SOME QUESTIONS TO ANSWER

1. When and where was Grieg born?

2. Name some famous men of his country.

3. Who was his first teacher?

4. Through whose advice did he go to the Conservatory at Leipzig?

5. What Danish composer gave Grieg good advice about his compositions?

6. Who were some of Grieg's teachers?

7. What composition by Grieg was given first prize in the contest in
Sweden?

8. What famous song did Grieg dedicate to Mina Hagerup?

9. Tell about Grieg's visit to Liszt in Rome.

10. Name as many of his compositions as you can. How many have you
heard?

11. Tell what you know about Grieg's personal appearance.

12. When did Grieg die? How old was he?

13. Who was Jenny Lind?




                       THE STORY OF EDVARD GRIEG

Written by .............................

On (date) .............................

                         [Illustration: No. 23]




                           Transcriber's Notes:

Passages in italics are indicated by _underscores_.

Passages in small caps were replaced with ALL CAPS.

In the list of composers in the instructions on how to use the book, the
"h當ek" in the name Dvor疚 was replaced with a regular "r".